# Original
The Decentr Loan Portal is a venue where lenders and borrowers find each other. It does not have custody of funds nor does the Decentr Loan Portal lend or borrow money. The Loan Portal is in Beta testing. To start with, the loans will be simple, small loans. The loans are in the amount of USD equivalent. The loans are to be repaid in 12 monthly installments. The interest the rate on these loans is 30% per annum. The monthly payment on the loan is USD 9.75. That monthly payment includes interest and principal, and fully amortizing the loan after 12 monthly payments. Borrowers are building their reputation with each monthly payment. After they make two monthly payments, borrowers are encouraged to apply for loans in the amount of USD 500. If they obtain that loan, it is recommended that they use part of it to pay off the remaining balance of the USD 100 loan. Paying on time and paying off the remaining balance will boost their standing as credible borrowers help them qualify for larger loans if they pay the monthly payments on time. Loans will be issued in DEC tokens, and repaid in DEC tokens. Borrowers will be protected against possible fluctuations in the price of DEC tokens. That means that borrowers will receive DEC tokens in an amount equal to 100 USD, and make monthly payments in DEC worth USD 9.75 each month. Borrowing and lending on the Decentr Loan Portal will strengthen each participant’s PDV rating, which will be helpful elsewhere in the Decentr environment, and will also qualify borrowers with strong PDv ratings to qualify for loans with lower interest rates. Decentr will request fees of 1% from the lenders and the borrowers, to cover its cost for providing the Loan Portal. This means that the lender will provide DEC tokens equivalent to USD 101 for each loan. Lenders will donate USD 1 to Decentr and the borrower will receive USD 100 equivalent. Borrowers will receive loans of USD 100 equivalent, and will donate USD 1 equivalent to Decentr. Borrowers can use all the USD 99 equivalent that they receive, and covert the DEC to the local currency in the country where they are doing business. They each month they can buy enough DEC to make the monthly payments. Many borrowers will use some of the money, and leave enough in their Decentr wallets to make the first two monthly payments. Then, after they make two monthly payments, they will apply for and probably obtain loans of USD 500 equivalent. With that larger amount, they can pay the remaining amount owed on the initial USD 100 loan. See the spreadsheet showing the full schedule of the USD 100 loan, which shows how much is still owed after each monthly payment.

# Updated
The Decentr Loan Portal is a venue where lenders and borrowers find each other. It does not have custody of funds nor does the Decentr Loan Portal lend or borrow money. The Loan Portal is in Beta testing. To start with, the loans will be simple, small loans. The loans are in the amount of USD equivalent. The loans are to be repaid in 12 monthly installments. The interest ~the~ rate on these loans is 30% per annum. The monthly payment on the loan is USD 9.75. That monthly payment includes interest and principal, and fully amortizing the loan after 12 monthly payments. Borrowers are building their reputation with each monthly payment. After they make two monthly payments, borrowers are encouraged to apply for loans in the amount of USD 500. If they obtain that loan, it is recommended that they use part of it to pay off the remaining balance of the USD 100 loan. Paying on time and paying off the remaining balance will boost their standing as credible borrowers**, and** help them qualify for larger loans if they pay **their** ~the~ monthly payments on time. Loans will be issued in DEC tokens, and repaid in DEC tokens. Borrowers will be protected against possible fluctuations in the price of DEC tokens. ~That~ **This** means that borrowers will receive DEC tokens in an amount equal to 100 USD, and make monthly payments in DEC worth USD 9.75 each month. Borrowing and lending on the Decentr Loan Portal will strengthen each participant’s PDV rating, which will be helpful elsewhere in the Decentr environment, and will also qualify borrowers with strong PDv ratings to qualify for loans with lower interest rates. Decentr will request fees of 1% from the lenders and the borrowers, to cover its cost for providing the Loan Portal. This means that the lender will provide DEC tokens equivalent to USD 101 for each loan. Lenders will donate USD 1 to Decentr and the borrower will receive USD 100 equivalent. Borrowers will receive loans of USD 100 equivalent, and will donate **the equivalent of** USD 1 ~equivalent~ to Decentr. Borrowers can use all the USD 99 equivalent that they receive, and ~covert~ **convert** the DEC to the local currency in the country where they are doing business. ~They~ Each month they can buy enough DEC to make the monthly payments. Many borrowers will use some of the money, and leave enough in their Decentr wallets to make the first two monthly payments. Then, after they make two monthly payments, they will apply for and probably obtain loans of USD 500 equivalent. With that larger amount, they can pay the remaining amount owed on the initial USD 100 loan. See the spreadsheet showing the full schedule of the USD 100 loan, which shows how much is still owed after each monthly payment.
